
GlossaryTech_online_dictionary_for_IT_recruiters
Filters
Glossary
ReactJS Front-end
JavaScript library which is used for building user interfaces specifically for single page applications and handling view layer for web and mobile apps. React also allows to create reusable UI components.

See also: Angular, Aurelia, Vue

TypeScript Front-end
Extension (a “superset”) of the JavaScript language. It differentiates itself from competitors like CoffeeScript and Dart in that plain JavaScript code can be intermixed with TypeScript. Primarily provides optional static typing, classes and interfaces.

See also: CoffeeScript, Dart, JavaScript

GraphQL Front-end
A query language designed to build client applications by providing an intuitive and flexible syntax and system for describing their data requirements and interactions.

See also: REST

Docker DevOps
A software virtualization platform that allows user create a container inside your computer. Container is a small virtual computer with it’s own OS and all setup that is needed, where the user can run any software as on the usual computer.

See also: Virtualization

Microservices Software Architecture
A particular way of designing software apps as suites of independently deployable services. This architectural method is considered ideal when you have to enable support for a range of platforms and devices – spanning web, mobile, IoT & wearables.

See also: API, Docker, SOA

Elixir Back-end
A dynamic, functional language, designed for building scalable & maintainable apps. Leverages the Erlang VM, known for running low-latency, distributed and fault-tolerant systems, while also being successfully used in web development and the embedded software domain.

See also: Clojure, Erlang, Ruby

SQL Databases
Structured Query Language is a programming language used to create, modify, and manage data in a relational database managed by an appropriate database management system.

See also: MS SQL Server, MySQL, PostgreSQL

API Software Architecture
Application Programming Interface is the interface between the site and third-party programs and servers. On different online services or platforms, we can use the API to log in, instead of registering, through accounts in social networks.

See also: RESTful API, SOA, Web services

Cloud Computing Cloud Computing
The delivery of computing services – servers, storage, databases, networking, software, analytics and more – over the Internet (“the cloud”). Most cloud computing services fall into three broad categories: IaaS, PaaS and SaaS.

See also: Amazon EC2, Azure, BaaS, Google Cloud Platform, Heroku, IaaS, PaaS, SaaS

Data Science Data Science
An interdisciplinary study of information sources, what the information represents and ways of turning it into a valuable resource when creating business and IT strategies. It uses methods and techniques of statistics and data analysis to analyze and understand a phenomenon.

See also: Big Data

Machine Learning Data Science
A field of study which explore that capability of a computer to learn, akin to a human brain. It also studies the construction of algorithms that can learn from and make predictions on data. Basically, it’s intention is to teach a computer how to learn at its own volition, and not because it has been programmed to.

See also: Data Science

UI Web Design
Short for 'User Interface'. Everything designed into an information device with which a customer/user may interact.

UX Web Design
Short for User Experience. Refers to a person's emotions and attitudes about using a particular product, system or service.

Version Control System (VCS) Tools
VCS, also known as SCM (Source Control Management), is a way to manage and document changes developers make to software code.​

Scalability Programming Concepts
Ability of a system, network to handle a growing amount of work in a capable manner or its ability to be enlarged to accommodate that growth.The capability of a system to increase its total output under an increased load when resources (typically hardware) are added.

Accessibility (a11y) Programming Concepts
Web accessibility means that people with disabilities can use the Web.

OS DevOps
Operating System is a program that allows to interact with the computer - all of the software and hardware on your computer. The operating system usually consists of the kernel of the operating system and the base set of applications.

See also: Linux, UNIX, Windows

Agile Development Methodologies
A time-boxed, iterative approach to software delivery that builds software incrementally from the start of the project, instead of trying to deliver it all at once near the end.

See also: Kanban, Scrum, Waterfall

R language Data Science
A programming language and software environment, commonly used for statistical computing within data heavy roles such as data mining, statistics and working with graphics. The language was created as a language similar to S.

See also: Data Mining, GNU

AWS Cloud Computing
A secure cloud services platform, offering compute power, database storage, content delivery and other functionality.

See also: Amazon EC2, Amazon S3

Data Scientist Tech Roles
A person, who analyzes large amounts of data and solves complex problems.

IoT General Terms
Short for Internet of Things. The concept of connecting any device with an on and off switch to the Internet (and/or to each other). These may be anything from mobile devices and headphones to washing machines or coffee makers.

See also: Blockchain

REST Software Architecture
Representational State Transfer is an architectural style of the interaction of components of the distributed application in a network. REST is an agreed set of constraints.

See also: GraphQL, RESTful API, SOAP

Hardware General Terms
The physical components that make up a computer system or other telecommunication devices, while software is instructions that can be stored and run by hardware.

See also: Malware

Git Tools
A lightweight and fast distributed VCS for small and large projects alike, which it handles with the same efficiency. Git handles all changes via a series of commands. It also provides support for nonlinear, distributed workflows.

Python Back-end
Popular general purpose programming language whose philosophy focuses mainly on code readability and maintainability. As a high level, interpreted language, Python is easy to learn for those who want to start coding.

See also: C#, Java, PHP

Linux DevOps
Unix-like operating system based on the Linux kernel, including one or another set of utilities and GNU project programs, and other components. Like the Linux kernel, systems based on it are generally created and distributed in accordance with the model of free and open source.

See also: CentOS, FreeBSD, UNIX

Unit testing QA
A process in programming, allowing to check the correctness of a unit of source code. It is used to write tests for each non-trivial function or method. This allows you to check whether the next change in the code led to errors in the already tested locations of the program.

See also: Functional testing, Jasmine, Jest, JUnit, Mocha, NUnit, Regression testing, xUnit.net

Framework General Terms
A universal software environment that provides particular functionality to facilitate development of software applications, products and solutions. It indicates what kind of programs can be built and how they would interrelate. It can also specify programming interfaces or tools.

See also: Software Architecture

Pandas Data Science
BSD-licensed library providing high-performance, easy-to-use data structures and data analysis tools for Python. Pandas provides two additional data containers to Python (Series & DataFrame), as well as useful data processing functionality around handling of missing data, set comparisons, and vectorization.

See also: matplotlib, NumPy

NumPy Data Science
Fundamental package for scientific computing with Python. NumPy is the core library in Python for array manipulation and thus a large part of numerical and scientific computation based on this language.

See also: matplotlib, Pandas

Front-end Front-end
Front-end is a term that involves the building of webpages and user interfaces for web-applications. It implements the structure, design, behavior, and animation of everything you see on the screen when you open up websites, web applications, or mobile apps. The core 3 technologies that all modern front-end web developers work to master are HTML5, CSS, and JavaScript.

See also: AJAX, Angular, CSS, HTML, JavaScript, ReactJS

C++ Back-end
An object-oriented programming language and incorporates all the features offered by C. C++ started its journey as C with classes. Gradually, it has evolved and despite the popularity of other programming languages like C# and Java, C, C++ holds its own as one of the most widely used languages for scripting. In applications, C++ is ubiquitous.

See also: C language, Visual Studio

Back-end General Terms
Or the 'server-side' of website development. Basically it is the programming that users don’t see in the browser, but what also powers the website. Back-end facilitates communication between the browser and server, provides smooth functionality akin to a desktop application.

See also: Database

Embedded Embedded
A term used to describe an object, software, or hardware that is independent and doesn't need an external program or device to run it.

See also: Embedded C, Embedded Java

Embedded C Embedded
A set of language extensions for the C programming language, used to program embedded microcontroller systems, allows to write programs, suitable for the microprocessor environment.

See also: Embedded, Embedded Java, OLE

Embedded Linux Embedded
A complete Linux distribution targeted at embedded systems (smartphones, tablets, set-top boxes, personal media players, etc). One major example of it is Android, developed by Google.

See also: Embedded, Embedded C, Embedded Java, Linux

Algorithm General Terms
A course of action, sequence of actions needed to accomplish a task (e.g., solve problem). There are different types of algorithms that can be used in different areas of life. In computer science, they are basis for all applications, ruling over how a program responds to certain actions or events.

NoSQL Databases
An approach to database design with a key-value store, document store, graph format for data and that differ significantly from the models used in traditional relational databases with access to data by means of SQL.

See also: MongoDB, RDBMS, SQL

Lean Software Development Development Methodologies
An approach to software development that implements the set of tools for identification and steady elimination of waste. It consists of seven principles that direct how to optimize development and maintain a team.

See also: OpenProject

RequireJS Front-end
JavaScript file and module loader that helps load the scripts and manage dependencies between them. Optimized for in-browser use, but it can be used in other JavaScript environments, like Rhino and Node.

See also: Dojo, jQuery, Node.js

Performance testing QA
Testing, which is conducted to determine how quickly the computer system or part of it under a certain load. It can also serve to verify and confirm other attributes of system quality, such as scalability, reliability and resource consumption.

See also: Automation Testing, Load testing, Stress testing

MQTT DevOps
Message Queue Telemetry Transport is a subscribe, lightweight messaging protocol, designed for constrained devices and high-latency or unreliable networks. Aims to minimise network bandwidth.

See also: AMQP, HTTP, WebSockets

UAT QA
User Acceptance Testing is the final stage of testing, and its goal is to "touch" the functionality of end users for usability and the ability to work with it. After this testing, a decision is made to implement the product.

Deployment DevOps
The process of getting program, software system available for use, it encompasses all the processes involved in running software properly in its environment, including installation, configuration, running, testing, etc.

See also: Quality Assurance (QA)

Swagger Software Architecture
A software framework for an Open API that is a specification for machine-readable interface files for describing, producing, consuming, and visualizing RESTful Web Services.

See also: API

Prototype Front-end
JavaScript framework created as part of the foundation for Ajax support in Ruby on Rails. Distributed standalone, but also as part of larger projects, such as Ruby on Rails, script.aculo.us and Rico.

See also: Backbone.js, jQuery, Underscore.js

Debugging Tools
A type of tool used for testing and debugging computer programs. Debugging is used to find defects within a program (bugs) and resolving issue they are causing. With debugging tools you can execute the program to a certain point or one line at a time, depending on how you want to examine it.

Google Drive Tools
A cloud-based file storage, that includes basic Office suite tools: Docs, Sheets, Slides, and others. It provides features for sharing and editing documents in collaboration with other Google Drive users, public and private or limited access. More features can be added via Add-ons.

Screen DevOps
A full-screen window manager that multiplexes a physical terminal between several processes, typically interactive shells. Programs continue to run when their window is currently not visible and even when the whole screen session is detached from the users terminal.

See also: GNU, Linux

Product Product Management
A service or an item that is offered for sale. It may have different forms: virtual, cyber or physical.

Product Management Product Management
An organizational function that guides every step of a product lifecycle within a company and manages all the activities related to the development, marketing and selling a product.

Growth Product Management
The second Product Life Cycle stage. Characterized by a growth in sales, profits and revenues. The product becomes more recognizable and the number of customers increases.

User Product Management
A person that uses some product, service or machine.

Customer Product Management
A person that purchases products (services or goods) produced by a business.

Statistics Data Science
Statistics is a Mathematical Science pertaining to data collection, analysis, interpretation and presentation. Statistics can be used to derive meaningful insights from data by performing mathematical computations on it.

Predictive Modeling Data Science
The process of using data and statistical techniques to forecast future outcomes.

Data Visualization Data Science
Data visualization is the graphical representation of information and data. By using visual elements like charts, graphs, and maps, data visualization tools provide an accessible way to see and understand trends, outliers, and patterns in data.

Mathematics Data Science
Mathematics is the science of numbers and their operations, interrelations, combinations, generalizations, and abstractions and of space configurations and their structure, measurement, transformations, and generalizations.

Computer vision Data Science
Computer vision is a field of computer science that works on enabling computers to see, identify and process images in the same way that human vision does, and then provide appropriate output.

See also: Artificial Intelligence

Finance General Terms
The management of money and other assets.

See also: Financial analysis, Financial Risk

Automation General Terms
Automation is the technology by which a process or procedure is performed with minimal human assistance.

Application Development General Terms
Application development is the process of gathering business requirements, designing, prototyping, coding, testing and ongoing improvements and debugging of software.

Mobile applications Mobile Dev.
Mobile applications (also known as mobile apps) are software programs developed for mobile devices such as smartphones and tablets.

See also: Mobile Developer

Computer Science General Terms
Computer Science is the study of computers and computational systems. Unlike electrical and computer engineers, computer scientists deal mostly with software and software systems; this includes their theory, design, development, and application.

Team Management Leadership
Team management is the ability of an individual or an organization to administer and coordinate a group of individuals to perform a task. Team management involves teamwork, communication, objective setting and performance appraisals.

Requirements Gathering Project Management
Requirements Gathering is the process of generating a list of requirements (functional, system, technical, etc.) from the various stakeholders (customers, users, vendors, IT staff, etc.) that will be used as the basis for the formal Requirements Definition.

Compliance Leadership
Compliance refers to following the relevant laws and regulations for your industry.

Trading system General Terms
A trading system is a set of rules or instructions that controls when to buy, and when to sell.

PCB design General Terms
Printed circuit board (PCB) design brings your electronic circuits to life in the physical form. Using layout software, the PCB design process combines component placement and routing to define electrical connectivity on a manufactured circuit board.

Altium Designer General Terms
Altium Designer is a PCB and electronic design automation software package for printed circuit boards.

See also: PCB design

Operations research General Terms
Operations research (OR) is a discipline that deals with the application of advanced analytical methods to help make better decisions.

EDA tools Tools
Electronic design automation (EDA) is a category of software tools for designing electronic systems such as integrated circuits and printed circuit boards. The tools work together in a design flow that chip designers use to design and analyze entire semiconductor chips.

Raspberry Pi General Terms
The Raspberry Pi is a low cost, credit-card sized computer that plugs into a computer monitor or TV, and uses a standard keyboard and mouse.

Authorization General Terms
Authorization is a process by which a server determines if the client has permission to use a resource or access a file. Authorization is usually coupled with authentication so that the server has some concept of who the client is that is requesting access.

Java Profiler Back-end
A Java Profiler is a tool that monitors Java bytecode constructs and operations at the JVM level. These code constructs and operations include object creation, iterative executions (including recursive calls), method executions, thread executions, and garbage collections.

Containerization DevOps
Containerization is the process of packaging an application along with its required libraries, frameworks, and configuration files together so that it can be run in various computing environments efficiently. In simpler terms, containerization is the encapsulation of an application and its required environment.

Classification Data Science
The process of predicting the class of given data points. Classes are sometimes called as targets/ labels or categories. Classification predictive modeling is the task of approximating a mapping function (f) from input variables (X) to discrete output variables (y).

Software Development General Terms
The process of conceiving, specifying, designing, programming, documenting, testing, and bug fixing involved in creating and maintaining applications, frameworks, or other software components.

6% Tools
79
terms
Reset
Reset all filters
 General Terms 16
 Data Science 11
 DevOps 7
 Front-end 6
 Product Management 5
 Tools 5
 Software Architecture 4
 Back-end 4
 QA 3
 Embedded 3
 Development Methodologies 2
 Cloud Computing 2
 Programming Concepts 2
 Databases 2
 Web Design 2
 Leadership 2
 Mobile Dev. 1
 Tech Roles 1
 Project Management 1
Hiring Software Engineers?
Post your jobs on Relocate.me
